I'm Dominic Giampaolo,
a member of the Spotlight team,
and this talk is working with Spotlight.
First, I'd like to go over what
we're going to cover today.
So the agenda that we
have is why Spotlight,
how it works,
what is it that we were trying to solve,
what did we try and accomplish.
Then the next piece,
integrating your app with Spotlight,
what does that mean,
what are the different parts of that,
searching with Spotlight, and of course,
working with metadata.
The main focus of the talk is really
going to be about what it means to
integrate your app with Spotlight.
First off, what's the problem?
Any engineering task,
before you start it,
you of course want to define what is,
put it in a box, define it.
What is it that we're
trying to solve here?
It's hard to find
things on your computer.
I think we've all run into this.
So, why is it hard?
There's too many files.
If you're anything like me,
you've accumulated a few
files over the years,
a couple tens of thousands, and then,
well, there's digital cameras.
Oh, that's another couple thousand,
ten thousand files.
And, oh yeah, all those MP3 files,
that's another bunch of files.
Any movies that you've
created or downloaded,
it starts to accumulate.
Right?
If you've bothered to put things
into some kind of organization,
that's really nice.
You have, like, I'm a little bit of a
librarian in a sense,
you know, nice broad hierarchy,
but everything's fixed
into a single location,
and that's not always what you want.
You may have files that fit
into multiple categories.
I have just got back from a trip,
and I took lots of pictures of flowers
and lots of pictures of mountains,
but in different countries.
If I want to say, show me all the flower
pictures I took in France,
well, that's one thing,
but if I want to say,
just show me all the flower
pictures from the trip,
including France and
Italy and wherever else,
can't do it.
It's not an easy way to organize things.
Next, there's also a lot of rich
information about files,
and we're just not using it.
So even though MP3 files are
tagged with a lot of rich metadata,
email has quite a bit of metadata,
JPEG images, of course,
the EXIF information from
the camera is quite a bit.
You may want to say,
show me everything with an aperture
less than f-stop of 3.0 for things that
you'd shot as close up or long distance.
But there's no way to
easily search for that.
So there's just no easy way
to find this information.
What's the Spotlight solution?
Obviously, we want to make it fast
and easy to find files,
as opposed, of course,
to making it confusing and difficult,
which I suppose if that was the goal,
we're already done.
So how do we want to do this?
By using metadata to
enable richer searches.
Metadata is information about the
data or the contents of a file.
We want to use that to enable users
to search in a more natural way.
This allows you to organize files in
multiple ways so that you can set,
like I was giving the example before,
mountains in France or French pictures,
pictures I took in France.
These are different axes
that you can flip around.
We'd also like to allow
for additional metadata,
things that maybe weren't
originally envisioned as being
associated with the file,
but that you need to,
such as workflow state.
And the last point is a very key one.
We don't want to require apps to change.
It would be great if we
could wave our hands.
Ta-da!
New world!
Everyone's rewritten all their apps.
Great.
We all work with metadata
and we're all very happy,
but the world doesn't work that way.
You have lots of code.
It's difficult to change.
So the minimal amount
that we can ask you to do,
the better.
Now I'm going to go through a quick demo
of Spotlight to cover a couple of things
that I'd like to highlight for you.
First, of course,
we'll start with the finder.
So some of this you saw in the keynote,
but there's a couple of subtleties
that I wanted to point out.
So first query type, of course, HTML.
We find 779 items out of
whatever are on this disk,
and that's pretty fast.
If I was to type something like JPEG,
like this, we find 1183,
which is a little bit bigger.
A few people missed this in the keynote,
or at least I heard,
but there are smart folders.
So if I type JPEG down here,
now I have a smart folder of JPEG images.
I have another one of HTML as well.
So you can save your searches
and come back to them,
and of course,
they're re-executed at that time.
Another thing, if I was to type
something like Frederick,
okay, nothing matches.
If I come over here,
I'll just position these
windows appropriately,
and I go and create myself a new folder.
But I'm not going to
type Frederick normally.
I'm going to do it the French way
because there's so many
wonderful French people at Apple.
So we type it with a
few extra accents there.
And when I hit return,
notice that it showed up
automatically in this query over here.
So even though I typed the
E's without the accents,
we're doing case and diacritic
and sensitivity on the matches,
and you saw that it was live as well.
It showed up when I created it.
And if I was to drag that to the trash,
it disappears from the query.
Next, I'm going to show you
a little application.
Well, not so little,
but a very nice application that we
wrote internally called Bullsearch
to demonstrate another feature
that we have called grouping.
So if I was to search for JPEG, again,
we find, there's a bunch of items here,
and I'm going to organize.
There's an option for grouping.
And so if I choose to
organize these by title,
some of these things were
actually QuickTime movies that
were compressed with JPEG,
photo JPEG compression.
So now you see there's kind of these
set of virtual folders that were
automatically created based on the title.
So there were five different versions
of the Dungeons & Dragons trailer,
and they get grouped together
because they all have the same title.
So it's sort of synthetic virtual,
and then you have virtual folders that
get created on the fly based on the set
of attributes that you're grouping by.
And this is a very powerful way to kind
of build virtual hierarchies on the fly.
So Finding Nemo, again,
there's only three versions of that film.
These are different resolutions
or bit rates for the web or so on,
which is kind of a nice
way to organize things.
Now, the key part of this demo, actually,
let me just quit that,
is that I'm going to run Microsoft Word.
Fire that up here for a second,
and I'm going to bring
up another Finder window.
I'm going to type the word
"outrageous." Nothing matches
the word "outrageous." Now,
in Word,
Outrageous document baby.
So I've just created this.
If I save it, and I'm going to call it
whatever because if it had the
word outrageous in the title,
that would be too easy.
And so, of course,
it automatically matched in
the content and showed up.
Key thing to observe,
we didn't change Word, right?
We don't have access to Word,
so we didn't actually do anything.
The find by content,
that's pretty straightforward.
Another thing, though,
that is a little bit more subtle,
if you pull up the property sheet,
and this was alluded
to in Bertrand's demo,
you can see that there's
some metadata here that was
automatically filled in for me,
both in the title and the author field.
So just click OK there.
If I was to come back over here,
and I'm just going to type
something else that matches nothing,
so you can see there's nothing there.
If I type my last name,
it matches the document,
because we extracted that metadata.
And again, this is the role of importers,
which is a key thing that we're
going to talk about here in a second.
And this is how you get your
app integrated into Spotlight.
So without any changes to
Microsoft Word whatsoever,
the simple addition of this importer,
we've managed to get it integrated
very seamlessly so that you can
search for things by their author,
so on and so forth.
Okay, so let's quit out of here,
clean this up, don't bother saying that.
And so going back to the slides,
if we can for a second.
Why do you care?
Spotlight enriches the user experience,
plain and simple.
It makes your documents easier to find.
When you're integrated properly
by the presence of an importer,
your documents,
users can find them based on things
that they remember about them,
not just the title.
So that can take many different forms,
some of which we're going to go over.
It doesn't require any
code changes in your app.
There are things that you can
do to take additional advantage
of Spotlight if you want,
but without doing anything at all,
for example,
like we did with Microsoft Word,
you can take advantage of,
you can get integrated
into the Spotlight system.
Users can find their
documents more easily.
It's like an additional feature
for almost no work whatsoever.
And it's another way to share data with
applications so that applications don't
have to necessarily know everybody
else's file format for the information,
the metadata that's important,
which can be published by the importer.
Then it's more easily accessible
to other applications,
and they don't have to go through
and parse your file format.
There's a uniform way to access it.
Now we're going to talk a
little bit about the Spotlight
architecture so you can understand
kind of how it's put together and
where you fit into the equation.
Spotlight is a system for storing
and retrieving and querying and
getting information about files.
It's composed of a server,
which runs in the background,
daemons that help the server,
and of course, importers.
And I should not forget
to mention the client API,
which is part of core services.
The importers are the sort of
connection from the rest of the
world to the system that stores it.
Kind of what does it look like?
Let's see if this can get this to work.
So over here on the left side,
you have an application,
which goes and writes a file.
When that file is written,
the system notices this,
and an importer is run to
extract metadata from that file,
which is then connected up
to the Spotlight server,
which stores it into the system's store.
On the right-hand side of the picture,
you have the finder icon,
which could be any application,
which issues queries and receives
results and can display those.
Not a lot of apps have a need for that,
but for those that do,
that's the sort of final piece of it.
There's three main concepts
in the Spotlight system.
Of course, you have importers,
which I've mentioned here using
the actual code terminology,
MD importer, which is how you extract
metadata from a file,
publish it to the system.
That's pretty straightforward,
and we're going to write one later
on in the talk in a minute here.
You have an MD query,
which is a way to write an expression
about the attributes that you
want to find or the files that
you want to find and retrieve them.
And then the leaf items are MD items,
which represent files,
and items are made up of attributes.
And I use the word metadata and
attributes sort of interchangeably.
Attributes are a name, type, and a value,
and represent some
information about the file.
Ways to integrate with Spotlight.
You can write an importer if
you have a custom file format.
So if you work with standard file
formats such as JPEG or AIFF or MP3,
you don't have to do anything.
We're going to cover the basic data
types that Apple supports natively.
So there's no work to be done if
you work with standard file formats.
With some caveats in the sense that you
want to put metadata in there if you can.
But the first thing you can
do if you have a custom file
format is to write an importer.
This is what enables sophisticated
searches for your documents.
You want to put useful
metadata in your documents.
So that's sort of what I was
saying is that if you can,
for example,
the EXIF data that comes in a camera,
preserve it,
make sure it stays in there or
put additional information in
there that we can extract because
a lot of file formats already have
support for a variety of metadata.
And then if you need, you can,
the final level of integration is
to actually use Spotlight queries
for tracking documents or you know,
displaying results.
Now we're going to switch
to talking about importers.
And in this section of the talk,
we will actually go through
and create one and write it,
install it, and show you how it works.
What are the rules of the game?
Importers need to publish
metadata that helps users search.
Kind of harping on this.
You want to allow for richer previews,
which in the sense that some
attributes are difficult to compute.
So the length of a song.
If you have a variable bit rate file,
computing how long it takes, you know,
what's the duration, is difficult.
So you would want to compute
that once and store it as an
attribute so that we can say,
oh, find me songs that are
longer than three minutes.
That's useful.
You want to avoid putting things into
publishing metadata that's private data,
binary data, icon previews.
This is not what Spotlight is about.
Spotlight is in a sort of
fast and efficient way to
search for user-oriented data,
things that users remember,
the labels of layers in
a Photoshop document,
the names of tracks in a multitrack
audio editor or movie editor.
These are things that you want to avoid.
And you want to avoid putting
things into publishing data
that people would remember that
they would want to search for.
A chunk of some data structure that's
internal to your app that's binary
that the user has no connection to,
no, that's not something that
they'd want to search for.
And at the other end of the spectrum,
too much noise,
too many attributes can confuse the user.
If you have 500 attributes,
that's probably not the right approach.
So what are attributes?
Examples of good attributes: copyright,
title, author, dimensions.
There's a special attribute
called KMDItemTextContent,
which we use to represent the
text content of a document,
and this is how we do
the full text searches.
So that can take a couple
of different forms,
and I'll cover that in
a couple of minutes.
Some bad attributes would be, you know,
app-specific implementation
details or binary data that the
user can't easily search on.
We've predefined a whole
bunch of attributes.
So you can see the list here,
KMDItemTitle, authors, keywords,
projects, and so on.
There's quite a different--quite
an extensive list.
It hasn't covered everything, of course,
but a fairly broad set of things.
And if you look in the include file,
metadataMDItem.h, you'll see that there's
a list of attributes
You will see the full
list of these attributes.
So writing an importer.
This is where we're going to actually
step through the process of writing one.
What do you have to do to do it?
In Xcode,
we've got a metadata importer template.
There's one function to implement.
So it's not that difficult.
You can use your existing document
reading code with the caveat
that you don't want to have
some piece of code that goes and
inflates the entire data structure.
You have some multi-megabyte
data image or whatever,
and it gets pulled into memory
and exploded and decompressed.
That's not what you would want to do.
You would want to sort
of scrape the file,
get the interesting bits of metadata,
and then publish that.
So a lightweight version of
your document reading code.
If you have a custom file format,
you know how to read and write it.
So you probably have
code that you can use.
And you return a CFDictionary of
the attributes that you would
like to publish for that document.
So those are sort of at a high level
what it takes to write an importer.
There's three steps using
the MD Importer template.
You have to create and define a GUID,
edit the Info.plist,
and then implement the code.
One, two, three.
Defining the GUID, there's a command line
tool called UUIDgen.
Type that in in the terminal, run it,
you get a string, put that into the code,
edit the Info.plist to associate
that GUID with the code,
and then identify the UTI types
that your plugin handles.
So if you have a custom file
format with a custom file type,
you would put the file type for
that document into the LSI item
content types key in the Info.plist,
and that's how the system
knows to associate your
importer with that data type.
And we're going to go through a code.
Then, of course,
you have to implement the code.
There's a function, getMetadataForFile,
and that's that.
So let's write an importer.
And you'll see this
doesn't actually take too,
too much.
So I'll run Xcode.
Oh,
can we switch over to the code machine?
Okay.
Okay, we'll create a new project.
And this is a Apple standard plugin.
We have metadata importer predefined.
And we'll call this
is the source importer,
although that's just because
that's what I've been typing.
It's not actually a source importer.
Well, it sort of is.
Let's see.
So if we pull up main.c,
you can take a quick look here.
We have a template and there is the
three steps that I talked about.
First thing it says is create a
unique UUID for your importer.
So fire up terminal.
I type UUID gen.
And I get this very beautiful 128-bit ID.
And I will push that down there.
And I paste that in there.
Okay.
And following the instructions,
go to step two, edit the Info.plist.
All right.
I can do that.
and I come back over here and
There is the metadata
import or plug-in ID.
And I will paste in there.
And once again,
this other part down here.
And then the last thing that it said
to do was to change the UTI type.
So in this case,
I'm going to say that we edit public-c,
or we support public-c header files.
Save that.
And now,
the third step is to write the code.
So of course,
I'm going to sit down and write
a big chunk of code right now
that parses C header files.
No, we're just going to cut
and paste a little bit.
There's a couple of header files
that I need to throw in here.
I'll put those up here at the top.
And I will put in a...
is the prototype for my function
which I wrote ahead of time.
And...
I'm just going to cut and paste a
nice big chunk of code down here
below that is very rudimentary,
but...
does enough work to make this demo
work to parse a C header file.
The last thing said,
implement get metadata for file.
So here we have that piece of
code that's empty at the moment.
You're passed in a couple
of different arguments,
and...
The main one, of course,
is the attributes
dictionary ref that you get.
This is what we're going to fill
out with the information that we
would like to publish for this file.
We're also told the content type UTI,
so if you have an importer
that handles multiple types,
you'll know what we think
the type of the file is.
And the last thing, most important,
is a reference to the file,
the path to the file that
we would like you to parse.
Now, I've already gone and filled in
the bit of code that does all this.
I'm just going to cut and paste this.
Into here, replacing this empty bit,
and then we'll go through
it really briefly.
And so this,
we get the full path and then we
have this function getTypeDefNames,
which given a path,
returns to us the number of type
defs in a C array and then does the
magic to convert that into a CFArray,
which we then add as a dictionary
value with a particular,
this is the attribute name,
comAppleSourceTypeDefName.
And there's one thing I have to do here
because we have a custom attribute name.
And we pass in the CFTypeDefs,
which is a CFArray.
So I can save this.
Now the last thing that I have to do,
because we're,
we have a custom attribute name, we
[Transcript missing]
So I need to call this com-- sorry,
I called it this.
I copied this.
This is where we actually
really say what it is.
I'll talk about this again in a second.
I'm just going to gloss
over this for a moment.
That's all taken care of.
Save that.
We've saved this and
we're going to build it.
If I didn't screw anything up, okay,
good job.
It built.
Now, what do we do with it?
We have,
go into the source importer directory.
If you look in the build directory,
there's a source importer.md importer.
If I copy-r source importer.
sourceimporter.mdimporter into
tilde slash library mdimporters.
I'm just putting it in
my home directory here.
I'll talk about where
else you can install it.
I'm just putting it here for the second.
We drop it in there.
Basically,
that's all it took to install it.
Now, we can run in developer tools.
There's a program called mdimport.
We do dash L.
If we did everything properly,
it should show up in the list,
which it did not.
Okay, so I need to mdcheck schema.
Check schema and that is on
schema.xml successfully parsed.
Oh, that's right.
Thank you.
Yeah, so clearly I've used Unix
for only about six months.
and of course being up
on stage helps a lot.
Whoever said that,
I really appreciate it.
I would have spent another
ten minutes realizing that.
Okay.
So now we will successfully
install it properly.
And if we run developer
tools MD import -- ah,
there we go.
Beautiful.
[Transcript missing]
: I had a sample header
file in this test directory.
If I run developer tools mdimport
again and with the -d3 option so it
will print out loads of information,
I have this file myheader.h.
First off, if I type -- let me just
go ahead and run it.
What we can see happened here is
It says importing data from file
and it tells me exactly what file,
what type it thinks it is,
public C header,
which is useful to see that it
matches what we defined ourselves as.
And then we can see that, hey,
com.apple.source.typedefs,
that's the name that we
defined for our attribute.
And there's three typedefs, myinteger,
mybiginteger, and foostruct.
And if we were to look at myheader.h,
we can see that there are three
typedefs in here that were extracted
properly and published as header file.
So this is a way that, you know,
we've just defined a new importer
and installed it in the system and
successfully had it publish metadata,
which, if we'd like to, go into Finder,
and if I say,
what file defines mybiginteger,
we see that myheader.h shows up.
So we're fully plugged into the system.
[Transcript missing]
So we wrote an importer.
There's a couple of things
we still need to talk about,
though.
MD importers run in
several different contexts.
So in the case that I showed there,
we ran MD import by
hand on a single file.
It ran, extracted the metadata.
That's all very nice, well, and good.
However, MD import can run in a couple
of different scenarios.
For example,
if someone takes and plugs in a FireWire
hard drive with 100,000 files on it,
we've got a lot of work to do,
and so it can be part of a
slightly longer running process.
This, of course, has implications.
So when you run it once and it works,
you're all happy, that's great,
and you don't notice
anything necessarily,
because even if it goes and
allocates a lot of memory,
you may not feel the impact.
However, when it's running, excuse me,
as part of a longer-lived process,
if it has leaks or trashes memory,
you're going to start
to notice these things.
So you need to be a good citizen.
You need to pay attention to this.
We're also taking
defensive measures as well.
So if you're not a good citizen,
we'll make you be a good citizen.
However, you want to avoid using a
lot of memory if you can.
You have to pay attention
to things like leaks,
and we have a lot of tools to do this.
And you want to use some caution
when reading large files.
So in some cases, like I said,
when you plug in a drive with
a whole bunch of files on it,
you don't want to necessarily just
read the file like you would normally,
because you can pollute the
buffer cache of the computer,
which can cause a lot of
unnecessary paging activity,
because in that scenario,
data's not likely to be used again.
So if you're running with
standard POSIX file descriptors,
you can call the
F control for F no cache.
And if the data is in the cache,
because it was a recently saved document,
you'll get it from there.
If it's not in the cache,
you won't waste time polluting
the cache with data that you're
never going to read again.
So that's always a win.
If you're using Carbon,
you can use the no cache mask.
If you're using Cocoa,
you can get it the raw file
descriptor and call the F control.
[Transcript missing]
As you saw, I installed it into Tilda
Library MD Importers,
which works pretty well for
initial testing and debugging,
but most likely you would want to install
your importer into /library/mdimporters.
For debugging, I used the mdimport-l,
which is a list of what
importers are installed.
That's a quick test to
see that it got there,
which is where I had that
heart attack earlier.
When you're testing it
to see what's happening,
you can use mdimport with the -d option
to get different levels of debugging.
-d4 is probably way too much.
You can give it a path
to a hierarchy of files,
or you can give it a
specific file as well.
It's in developer tools,
and it's the way you
would test things out.
If you need to define new attributes,
and this is what I kind of glossed
over in the code walkthrough,
there's a schema.xml file
that's part of the project.
And you can define new attributes
in a couple of different ways.
So depending on what your needs are,
the first one,
we have a string attribute,
which we define as a type of CFString,
and we give it a name.
You can have number, CFNumber.
And the last one is kind
of an interesting one,
and this is what I used
in the source importer.
It's a multivalued string.
What this means is you can
think of the attribute as an
array of individual values.
So foo, bar, blah,
those are all separate entities that
are in an array for that attribute.
Then you would localize,
or you can provide localization for your
attribute with the schema.strings file,
which is again a standard convention.
It's a UTF-16 file.
And you map.
You can also map what you wanted to call,
or what the name you gave it in the file,
which is not something you
would display to the user.
And then in my favorite language,
the only other language I know, Italian,
what you would want it displayed as.
And you can check this
with md_check_schema.
You notice that we're using a kind
of funky naming convention here
where the reverse DNS style naming,
but we have underbars instead of periods.
That's because we wanted to
keep these attribute names
compatible with the Cocoa key.
So we have a little key value
coding scheme which doesn't
allow for periods in the name.
So that's why we did it that way.
Apple has written a whole bunch, well,
a whole bunch,
a couple of importers for the standard
file formats that we support natively,
and you can expect us
to continue to do that.
So things like JPEG, PNG, TIFF, so on,
we have that covered.
QuickTime, of course,
you would expect that.
PDF.
And then things that the application
kit can open for text documents,
which includes RTF and
RTFD and Word documents,
we support that as well.
So you don't have to do those.
So in summary,
importers are pretty simple to write.
There's not a lot to it.
There's a bit of glue code
that you have to get together.
We provide that in the template.
It's a CF plug-in,
so it's not any great magic.
It makes your documents easier to find.
This is the connection.
This whole system,
the whole Spotlight system lives and
dies by the quality of the metadata
that's there and how easy it is
for users to search for things.
So it makes your
documents easier to find.
It's in everybody's
best interest to do it.
It handles full text indexing with
the KMDItemTextContent attribute.
And it's the sort of thing you
could go home and write one tonight.
So with that,
let's talk about queries and searching.
Who needs queries?
Well, not a lot of people, actually.
There's not that many finder
applications that need to be written.
But apps that have a custom UI where the
focus is working with groups of files,
so take some of these things and
do some of this stuff over here,
and that's the main focus of your
UI where you're not going through
a traditional open save panel,
those are the kinds of things that
would benefit from working with queries.
So asset management, workflow,
or file type management applications.
Even something like Soundtrack,
which you may not think
of as working with files,
but in fact,
I don't know if you're familiar
with the Soundtrack application,
but you select different
sets of instruments and it
issues queries to do this.
This is something actually that could
take advantage of the Spotlight system
to do queries on the attributes about
the instruments that it's searching for.
Queries find items based
on their attributes.
Attributes that you can search
on are the metadata that's
published by the importers,
of course, file system attributes,
that's what we've always
been able to search on,
the file size, last modification time,
all those boring things that
you don't really always think
about but are useful sometimes,
and of course full text content.
What does the query language look like?
It's a simple C-like expression
with standard operators like equals,
not equals, greater than,
what you would expect.
You can have parentheses for grouping.
So what does it look like
in an actual expression?
They have two of them there,
kmd item keywords equals star foo star,
and that's how you would
do a substring match.
And then the bottom example
is slightly more complex.
When I did the example of searching
for Frederic in the finder before,
you noticed that it matched
because even though the accented,
the characters,
the accented E and I hadn't
typed an accented E,
it still matched.
And what you see at the end here is,
whoops, I went too far.
Okay.
That little CD at the end stands for case
insensitive and diacritic insensitive.
And because we have the
asterisks around both ends of it,
it's a case and diacritic
insensitive substring match.
Now, how do you write a query?
There's three parts to it, really.
You first create an MD query ref,
and you have the standard
CFAllocator default.
And the string you pass in
is the expression that we had
just on the previous screen.
In this case, we're saying KMDItemTitle
equals star tiger star,
and we have the CD.
And then we have some additional
options for grouping and sorting,
which I showed in full search,
but we're not going to cover here today.
We'll pass nulls for those.
Then you start the query
running with MD query execute.
And in this case,
we've specified that we want to have,
want updates, which is a live query.
If you just want to
issue a one-shot query,
you pass zero, I believe,
for that argument,
and then you don't get any updates.
It just, that's the results,
that end of story.
Then you read the results.
When you get notifications
that there's results available,
you get the result at query index I,
and there you have it.
Thank you.
Queries are designed to
work with CF run loops.
So there's three phases, really.
There's progress, okay,
you're getting results,
things are coming in
from the initial set,
we're going through.
Then you get a finish
notification that says,
okay, that's the initial set.
If you selected for live queries,
then you'll start to get updates as
things come and go from the query set.
Now when you saw, like,
the liveness things, I did a query,
nothing matched,
then something popped in,
that's an update notification
coming in saying,
hey, there's a new result.
You have, like I mentioned,
one shot or live queries,
and the sorting and grouping features,
which, again,
unfortunately we're not going to cover
today because we will not have time.
So if I can come back over here,
we're going to go through a little sample
program that we have that does queries.
I'm not going to write the code,
but we will go through it briefly
to kind of see what it looks like.
I have a little application that
looks like this guy right here.
And there's a search field which is
hooked up to the code to a search now.
So when I type in a string,
that gets plugged into
this function here,
search now, in the code.
Let me slow down a little bit.
First thing we do is set
the title of the window,
not very interesting.
We create an NSString,
and this is a Coke application,
and we do a star equals,
and then we put the
string that they type,
that's the percent at that was
typed into the search field,
and we put it in quotes and
put it as a substring match
with the stars on either end,
and we say CD for case and
diacritic and sensitive.
Then we pass that on to start query,
which is another method down below,
and that's right here.
Here we take -- we add notifications.
This is the very first
query that we've run.
We add some notification
observers for progress,
finish, and update.
Then we call MD query execute just
like I mentioned on the slides earlier.
Now, when we run this program,
let's go ahead and build it and run it.
Here's what it looks like,
and if I type HTML,
we'll get the same results we'd get
in any of the other applications,
and we have 779 results.
All right, pretty straightforward.
Where did that all come from?
When we got updates,
we asked the TableView to
reload its data,
and I'm going to talk about that,
how we actually display the data
later on in the last bit of this talk.
And when we get the done notifications,
we don't have to actually do anything,
we just note that it's done.
And... Uh... That's
basically all there is to it,
to issuing a query.
That you... When you get updates,
you tell yourself to process them,
and in this case, like I said,
we just asked the
TableView to reload the data,
which is where we actually
go and display it.
And that's... That's that.
So, I'll actually, I'll leave that,
I'll bring that back 'cause
I'm gonna need it next.
If we can go back to the slides,
actually.
So really,
few apps need to perform queries.
If you need to do it, it's not that hard,
but it's not the sort of
thing that you have to think,
oh,
what do I have to do to adopt Spotlight?
I need to do this.
Not everybody needs to.
It's great if you do.
It's not very hard,
but if it's appropriate
for your application.
Queries are C-like expressions about
the attributes that you want to search.
So you saw we had some very simple
expressions with standard equals.
You can build much more complex
ones with parentheses for grouping.
So you can do ors and
ands and so on to build.
Date is modified between this date
and it's less than this other date,
or it's in this other date range.
I mean, you can build some fairly
sophisticated things if you'd like.
It's well integrated with CF run loops.
It would be kind of a pain.
If this was bolted on the side,
you had to jump through hoops
and do contortions to make it
work with your application.
But, you know,
we've worked very closely with the
Finder team to meet their needs
and other applications like the
Bullsearch demo or that AskMac demo.
So we kind of understand how it
should be integrated properly.
There's options for doing live queries.
So if you want to continue to receive
updates and notifications on the fly,
we support that.
And as I mentioned or alluded to
and sort of demoed with Bullsearch,
there's sorting.
And grouping features,
which can provide you with some pretty
advanced functionality if you require it.
Now, displaying metadata.
As you saw when I ran Ask Mac,
it displayed some information
about the files in that it
was displaying the names,
but it got that through
the Spotlight system.
It's pretty straightforward
to display metadata.
You have to have an item reference.
You can get an item
reference in one of two ways.
You can either first get it
as a result from a query,
or you can create it
for an explicit path.
So if you know the path
through some other mechanism,
it was something returned to you via a
file open save panel or what have you,
you can just explicitly create the item.
Once you have the item reference,
then you can get a list of
attribute names about the item,
a dictionary, an array, I'm sorry,
of the names of attributes
that exist for that item.
So if you don't know anything
about it and you want to display
arbitrarily what's there,
you can get that list.
And then go through and
get the actual values.
Or if you know exactly what you want,
you can use the MD item copy
attribute family of calls.
And I say it's a family because there
are different variants depending
on whether you want to get one,
a few,
or all of the attributes for an item.
And then you can use that information.
And we all work with standard CF types.
So if you have a multivalued string,
you'll get back a CFArray with all of
the values for that attribute name.
So in the case of going
back to the source importer,
if I asked for,
if I call MD item copy attribute
for this specific attribute,
com, apple, source, type defs,
I would get back a CFArray that
contains the names or the
values for that attribute name.
Of course,
if the attribute doesn't exist,
you'll get a null,
so you need to be aware of that.
You want to use the one
that's most appropriate.
Of course, bulkier calls.
They're better in the sense
that if you're going to get five
attributes and you know you're
always going to get five attributes,
build a CFArray with those five attribute
names and get all five of them at once.
Sort of standard best practices.
That way you avoid round trips
back and forth to the server.
So let's show you how we display
metadata back in the Ask Mac application.
So going back down to that
mysterious function that I alluded
to about reloading the data.
Here we have the table view,
object for table column.
And in this case,
you see we come in and we
take the identity field of the
[Transcript missing]
Can we go back to the slides?
No, thanks.
Okay.
So in summary,
items consist of a list of attributes.
Items are the representation of
a file in the Spotlight system,
and it's a list of attributes,
and attributes are name, type, and value.
You can get a list of all
the attributes for an item.
So if you know nothing at all
about it and you want to find
out everything that's there,
you can get the full list of names,
and then you can go through and
retrieve the actual values for each one.
You can call... There's calls in the
MD item copy attribute family for one,
some, or all of the attributes that
are associated with the file,
and you want to use the
bulk calls when possible.
One item that I should... Or one
attribute that I should mention that
is special is KMDItemTextContent.
You can't retrieve that in
the sense of give me the text
content for this document.
It doesn't work that way,
just so that you're aware of it.
Now, we've talked a bit about the CDAPI,
and there's also a Cocoa API that
I'd like to mention,
although we're not going to go
into any code samples for it.
As you might expect,
the lower-level core services API is
very straightforward and procedural.
There's the Cocoa API,
which is based on NSMetadataQuery,
and as expected,
is higher-level object-oriented.
It manages queries and results.
Use the NSPredicate class,
which it should have in blue, but anyway,
to populate or to initialize
an NSMetadataQuery.
NSPredicate is an expression about
the attributes that you want to find,
and that's how you would build
the expression as opposed to just
using a straightforward string.
NSMetadataQuery also
offers a grouping feature,
and it's key-value coding
and observing compatible,
so you can hook things up
to NSArray and NSPredicate.
You can also use NSTreeControllers for
automatic connections between queries,
their results, and their display.
Another factor that I'd like to
talk about is full text indexing.
I've mentioned it a few times
throughout the presentation that
Spotlight uses full text indexing.
The search kit has undergone some
dramatic improvements for Tiger.
Content indexing is considerably faster.
Incremental search,
which is something that
wasn't really doable before,
is up to 20x faster.
So you don't have to wait for
all the results to be relevance
ranked before you get results.
We can start getting results on the fly.
Which kind of gives you that
find as you type functionality.
And when you do want relevance ranking,
they've improved the
relevance ranking quite a bit.
Now why am I mentioning this?
In some cases it's appropriate
to use the search kit directly
for your own private index,
such as the help content
or the Xcode documentation.
These are things that are
sort of more appropriate to
private or app specific index.
And the search kit APIs which
were made public in Panther.
And have been enhanced in Tiger are there
for you to use and fully documented.
What's the current state of things?
So obviously this is not a final release,
so we're not done yet.
There's going to be issues and
things that you'll run into.
There's some limits on attribute
size that we've kind of self-imposed.
We're sort of proceeding very cautiously
with this whole project because this is
sort of new territory in a lot of ways.
I mean, I know some of these
things have existed before,
but we don't want to put ourselves into a
situation where we wind up with something
that's not sustainable in the future.
So we're kind of defining
a fairly tight envelope,
and then where we bump into it,
we look at it.
Well,
why did we bump into that limit there?
Is this the right place to expand things,
to push the boundary?
And when appropriate, yeah,
we'll push it.
So like I said,
there are some limits on the attribute
size and number of attributes.
When you run into these, talk to us.
Let us know what it is
that you're trying to do.
Why is it not working?
Sometimes it's the right
thing to increase the limits,
and sometimes it's like, no,
maybe that is an indication that things
should be done in a different way.
We need your feedback.
Like I said,
this is kind of new territory for
it to be in such a broadly available
general-purpose operating system,
you know, these kind of metadata
functionality and so on.
So we want to hear what
people are looking for,
what they need, what they're missing,
what doesn't work for them with
what we have today so that we
can build the system better,
expand the system to meet those needs.
So summarizing what
we've talked about today,
importers are the main connection
from your application file
format to the Spotlight system.
So importers publish metadata from files.
Spotlight takes that metadata and makes
the documents easier to find and allows
them to be displayed more richly.
Spotlight also allows applications to
interact in more sophisticated ways.
So as I mentioned before,
you don't have N applications
that have to know about M other
applications and all their file formats.
They can just sort of ask for
the attributes about the file.
They don't have to bother going to parse
it because the data has been published.
What do you need to do?
What is the end result of this?
If you have a custom file format,
write an importer.
That's the biggest thing,
that's the biggest favor
you can do for your users,
for us, and for yourself.
Put useful metadata in your documents.
So a lot of file formats already have
support for various types of metadata,
like I showed with Word,
there's that property sheet.
Make sure to populate that where you
can with things that are interesting,
things that would help the user
find that document later on.
And when you're doing things,
if you're doing special things,
manipulating a document and copying it,
or doing a save as,
preserve the metadata where possible,
or when appropriate.
So if there's an exif
chunk in a JPEG file,
and it makes sense,
and you haven't completely
modified the document so that
it no longer makes sense,
preserve that, copy it,
as part of the file format.
So,
Now,
where can you find out more about this?
Because I've gone through
this pretty quickly and,
you know,
it's not like you're going to necessarily
have everything in your head right now.
There's a whole bunch of example
code and documentation online as
well as some updates to what's
online and that disk image is where?
Connect.apple.com.
Okay, so there's an additional disk image
of documentation on connect.apple.com.
So here we have...
The different Spotlight importers,
where you would find that documentation,
the MD importer reference.
The template that's there
pretty much describes it all,
so there's not too,
too much that you have to worry about.
Oops, put that in the right place.
MD item, to find out how you
would manipulate that,
what the functions of that class are,
not class,
but what the family of calls are,
how you would make use of them.
query reference, schemas, and so on.
[Transcript missing]